Lifecycle Methods and Event Alternative to `sessionsId` (#285)
ChainAgnostic/CAIPs: CAIPs/caip-307.md

---

> caip: 307

Reviewer: and rename the file!

title: JSON-RPC Method for Retrieving Session Authorizations
author: [Alex Donesky] (@adonesky1)

> discussions-to: TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
discussions-to: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/285/files
```

---
caip: 307
title: JSON-RPC Method for Retrieving Session Authorizations
author: [Alex Donesky] (@adonesky1)
discussions-to: TBD
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2024-07-13
requires: 25, 217
---

## Simple Summary

CAIP-307 introduces the `wallet_getSession` method for retrieving authorizations from an active [CAIP-25][] initiated session.

## Abstract

This proposal aims to extend the [CAIP-25][] standard by defining a new JSON-RPC method for retrieving authorizations within a session. This method allows callers to dynamically retrieve authorizations and properties without necessarily having to persist and track it throughout the session's life.

## Motivation

The motivation behind this proposal is to enhance the flexibility of [CAIP-25][] by enabling the retrieval of session authorizations at any time. The proposed method provides an intuitive way to retrieve authorizations for an active session, allowing callers to access session data without having to persist and track it over the full life of the method.

## Specification

### Definition

> The `wallet_getSession` method returns an active session. If a `sessionId` is provided, it returns the authorizations for that specific session; otherwise, it returns the authorizations for the single active session between the wallet and the caller.`

Reviewer: what if no sessionId is provided in the request, but the wallet has multiple sessions concurrently?  I.e., what if the initial connections all returned a sessionId but the dapp just messed up and didn't include? It might help to be more explicit, i.e. 

```suggestion
The `wallet_getSession` method returns an active session. If a `sessionId` is provided, it returns the authorizations for that specific session; if none is provided and only one session is active, it returns the authorizations for that active session between the wallet and the caller, otherwise, an appropriate error message.
```

Author: done with some modifications to your suggestion here: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/285/commits/405c5a03d7d0386c4f3d87bcf8db8de81af6257f

```
The `wallet_getSession` method returns an active session.
If a `sessionId` is provided, it returns the authorizations for that specific session;
If no `sessionId` parameter is provided - and there is a single active session with no `sessionId` assigned - it returns the session authorizations and properties for that session;
otherwise, an appropriate error message;
```

**Parameters:**

- `sessionId` (string, optional): The session identifier.

### Request

The caller would interface with a wallet via the same provider by which it called `wallet_createSession` to retrieve a session by calling the following JSON-RPC request:

```jsonc
{
  "id": 1,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "method": "wallet_getSession",
  "params": {}
}
```

### Response

An example of a successful response follows:

```jsonc
{
  "id": 1,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "sessionScopes": {
      "eip155:1": {
        "methods": ["eth_signTransaction"],
        "notifications": ["accountsChanged"],
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xabc123"]
      },
      "eip155:137": {
        "methods": ["eth_sendTransaction"],
        "notifications": ["chainChanged"],
        "accounts": ["eip155:137:0xdef456"]
      },
      "solana:4sGjMW1sUnHzSxGspuhpqLDx6wiyjNtZ": {
        "methods": ["getBalance", "getAccountInfo", "sendTransaction", "getBlock"],
        "notifications": [],
        "accounts": ["solana:4sGjMW1sUnHzSxGspuhpqLDx6wiyjNtZ:4Nd1mS8AUwK3kU3gdiAM6QCvqhA7Do8rKtMXsGyqrJxy"]
      }
  }
}
```

## Security Considerations

> The introduction of this lifecycle method must ensure that only authorized parties can retrieve the authorizations of a session. Proper authentication and authorization mechanisms must be in place to prevent unauthorized access or modifications.

Reviewer: I feel like it's worth being a little more explicit here, because everyone considers their authN and authZ mechanisms proper 😅 .  Is it worth mentioning that one easy way of doing this is by establishing a connection over domain-bound or otherwise 1:1 transports, and that binding to a sessionId explicitly is recommended otherwise?

Author: done here: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/285/commits/405c5a03d7d0386c4f3d87bcf8db8de81af6257f
